So, we have actually four distribution styles: the EVEN distribution,
the ALL distribution, the AUTO distribution,
and the KEY distribution.
Let's take the first one.
Before trying to optimize anything at all,
the idea would be that we have a table like that.
Look at that table, and, let's say,
this table has 1,000 rows for the simplicity of the arithmetic here.
It has a primary key,
but it has also a fact table here.
[inaudible] sales fact.
It has a reference to a dimension, which is the store.
We start copying this into our table,
and whether the copy itself is in parallel or is in multiple files,
that's, well, a little bit beside the fact,
but the usual case is going to be that we are copying the file in parallel files.
But this fact aside,
right shift wants to load-balance the amount of data here.
So, ideally, if these are 1,000 rows,
we would like to have 250 rows on each of those slices.
The idea would be, it is going to put one row here, one row here,
one row here, one row here: one, two,
three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
That would be a round robin fashion,
and we don't know how many are coming.
So, instead of doing any math,
we just go and give each server one row,
and that would even out the load.
Let's take another example where we have a table which is much smaller,
which is 40 rows,
which is a dimension table.
Here, that would be the store itself in New York or in California, and so on.
Let's assume we copy that table, and,
well, no surprises here,
we get 10 rows each, and, again, one,
two, three, four, five,
six, seven, eight, and so forth.
Now, let's think about what is going to happen,
and that's a crucial part.
Let's take that really slow.
What is going to happen if we try to join the facts and the dimension to get
out something like instead of the foreign key of the store,
we get actually the store itself,
which is either New York,
California, or something like that?
So, we're going to join here.
Both of them are actually done with the even distribution, no cleverness whatsoever.
So, take a look here.
We want to get this,
but we want to replace this two with the actual store name. Where is that?
That's on CPU number 2 with storage number 2.
Actually, each one of those has its own storage.
So, actually, what we would have to do for each case
of those is that we will have to take, for instance,
that key five to here and to here,
and we'll have to take this two into here and into here.
Luckily, we have a two here on the same CPU,
so we don't need to incur any network traffic.
It would have been fantastic if
all the foreign keys had resided actually on the same machine as we are.
Going forth, we will see here also that
this key would have to be disseminated to here and here.
We're not done yet, that one would have to go here.
The idea is, we're not speaking about 40 and 100 rows.
This is the trivial example that can fit a slide,
not even all of it fits the slide.
We're talking here about 100 and 1,000,
possibly millions, of rows.
So, the sending of these keys all over the place is known as shuffling.
When we join a table,
we do lots of shuffling if we have a naive strategy here.
Thus, we can actually do a little bit better.